-(theme music playing)
-* Bad boys *
-* Whatcha want,
whatcha want *
* Whatcha gonna do *
* When the Sheriff John Brown
come for you? *
-Officer: You better stop...
-* Bad boys, bad boys *
-* Whatcha gonna do *
-* Whatcha gonna do
when they come for you? *
-Hands behind your back!
-* Bad boys, bad boys *
* Whatcha gonna do *
* Whatcha gonna do
when they come for you? *
-Announcer:
"Cops" is filmed on location
with the men and women
of law enforcement.
All suspects are innocent
until proven guilty
in a court of law.
-I've been with Lubbock PD
for just a little over 10 years.
I'm a detective with their
Crime Suppression Unit.
The squad I'm on
deals with kind of, uh,
a little bit of everything.
Uh... it's been a pretty
amazing ride, to tell you
the truth.
Um... it's not something
I initially thought
myself as doing,
but I can't-- I mean
I go to work every day
and I can't believe
that I get paid to do this job.
-Man on radio:
Hey, let me know
'cause I got a violation.
-All right, I'm two cars
behind you here.
-Go ahead and get behind him.
He's been playin' tricky on me.
-(radio beeps)
-Yeah, I see him.
Uh, this car was leavin'
a house that we had
some interest on
just a little while ago.
Um, it's made a couple
of evasive actions,
not signaling
during the lane changes.
He was in the turn lane,
he immediately jumped over
into the straight lane
within 100 feet
of the intersection here.
We're gonna go ahead
and initiate a traffic stop
on the vehicle.
-He doesn't
want to do that, do he?
-And it looks like
he's probably not gonna stop.
Yeah,
we're gonna be in pursuit.
-(siren blaring)
-(police radio chatter)
-Dubois: 72-55.
-Man on radio:
Southbound on Indiana.
Going 70. Black truck.
-Dubois:
72-55, I'm with that unit.
I'll be second pursuit.
I'll call.
-Woman on radio:
Okay, Indiana and what?
-33-09. 91st. He's crashed out.
-(sirens blaring)
-Get out of the the car now!
Get out! Get on the ground!
-I'm trying!
-Get on the ground.
He threw dope out
at that one sign.
-Ohh... oh, God.
Oh...
-Ohh!
-(police radio chatter)
-Start EMS.
Code B injury.
-Man on radio:
You can cancel 10-33.
He's in custody.
-Oh! Ohh!
-Okay, what's hurting?
-Ooh...
-Tell me what's hurting.
-My arm!
And my leg...
-You wanna sit up?
-Hold on, please.
-Oh, God...
-Tell me what's hurting.
-Ohh...
-Why'd you run?
I really didn't think
you was a cop at first.
-What's your--
what's your name?
-Michael.
-I been-- I been gettin' (bleep)
by some Mexican dudes.
-Okay. And that's why
you ran?
-At first I thought it was
just a black truck,
and then I'd already took off.
I kinda panicked.
-Okay.
So you just panicked
because you didn't think
it was a cop?
Why didn't you stop?
Why didn't you stop
when you saw the lights
and the sirens?
Why didn't you stop?
-I'm sayin' at first
I thought that it wasn't a cop.
Oh, God...
-Is there anything in the car
that we need to worry about?
Is there any guns?
Is there any narcotics,
anything like that?
Okay. Not anymore?
-I don't have none.
-Okay.
-I have somethin' in my eye.
-Yeah, it's blood.
So how come you didn't stop
once you saw it was the police?
-'Cause I had already took off.
I already knew y'all were gonna
arrest me.
-Well, not if you just stopped.
What made you think
we were gonna arrest you?
If you stopped,
why would we have the...
-Because I'm already a villain.
You'll always arrest me, man.
-You realize
that you have to have
committed a crime
in order to be arrested,
you understand that, right?
-Man, I know I'm goin' to jail.
-Well, you are now
because you ran from us.
Had you just stopped,
you know, the worst
you probably would've got
was a ticket.
All right.
-Is someone
gonna call my lawyer?
-Woman on radio:
12-45.
-(grunts)
-Anything else hurtin'?
-(groans)
-Well, Michael, is this gonna
teach you
from runnin' next time?
-I said I'm sorry.
-Okay. Okay, sit down.
Sit down.
We got you. We're not gonna
let you fall.
-I'm sorry.
-Sit in the chair, there you go.
-Ohh...
-If he doesn't have warrants,
there's a reason he ran.
We think that he tossed
something out the window.
Um, I don't believe
we've found anything
as of yet, but...
-Woman on radio:
51-36.
-(police radio chatter)
-Okay, west side of the street?
-Man on radio:
Yeah, you can't miss us.
All right, I got ya.
Um, we're headin' over here.
There's the light-- the-- the--
They got the lights
on the vehicles over here.
He tossed somethin' at the start
of the initial pursuit.
Um... so we kinda reviewed video
and were able to determine
it was kind
of in one of the alleys,
and so...they found it.
I'm guessin'
it's gonna be narcotics.
I don't know for sure.
-You just stepped on it.
-Oh, this what he tossed?
Okay.
-We're assumin' it.
-So you saw it?
I didn't even see you,
so when we were goin' through
the light, I was figurin'
you were gonna come in
behind me or whatever.
-(police radio chatter)
-Uh, we got some baggies
used for the selling
of narcotics,
we got a small amount
of what looks
to be methamphetamines...
uh, in ice version.
We'll test it, make sure
it does confirm meth,
but just from appearance
or whatever, it appears
to be methamphetamine.
-Did your dog find it?
-Uh-huh.
-Oh, your dog found it? Okay.
-Yeah, we were comin'--
-Bad?
-Bad. We started where
the construction guys were.
-Yeah?
-And then we just started
workin' the area up this way,
then we started workin' up here
and he put his nose
and sat on that.
-Okay. Uh, what we're doin' now
is, we're gonna go ahead
and, uh, field test
the... the substance.
What we normally do
is we'll field test it on scene.
We will, uh...
at that point,
if it tests positive,
we'll turn it in
to DPS lab
for further analysis,
um, to just verify
from an actual lab.
It'll turn orange
upon appearance
if it's positive
for methamphetamines.
And there's the positive hit.
Don't believe
he has any felony warrants.
Just had a little bit of dope
that he needed to get rid of.
-My whole family's from
a small town outside
of Abilene, Hamlin, Texas.
Real small town. My parents
grew up down the street
from each other.
My dad actually went home
on the first day
of kindergarten
and said that he was gonna marry
a girl that is now my mom.
So I had a really strong
foundation growin' up
of what a relationship
was supposed to look like,
uh, how a marriage
was supposed to work.
We're on our way
to a domestic, uh...
RP called in and said
that his ex-girlfriend
was fightin' with... um, him
and another friend.
Eight-two, 10-23.
-Male 1: You need to go.
Please leave.
-Male 2: Go!
-What's goin' on?
-He just threw me on the floor.
-She just hit me.
-No, she's been hitting
both of us.
-That's all we want her is gone.
-Come here.
-That's it. That's all we want.
-She was supposed
to leave earlier.
-Y'all go stand by the car.
-Yes, sir.
-Okay.
What's goin' on?
-What's goin' on?
This is my boyfriend...
Well, was.
Because he has
a new bitch in my house, right?
I've been calling him
to let me see my kids.
When I got here,
I seen this girl
in my boyfriend's car.
And I walked up to her
and I said, "Hey,
what's your name?
What are you doing here?"
I said, "Who are you here with?
Are you here with Jaime?"
She said, "Yeah."
I said, "You know, Jaime,
Jaime and I are together."
I said, "He gots a girlfriend.
We're tryin' to work
things out."
-So what-- what exactly
happened tonight, then?
-Tonight, all I wanted
was the truth.
That's all I wanted
to talk to him about
was the truth.
-So how did you end up
with grass all over you?
-'Cause he threw me
on the floor.
-Who threw you on the floor?
-My boyfriend did.
-Okay.
Hey, so what's goin' on?
-Earlier today,
she came knocking on my door,
asking to see the kids,
but we been separated.
And, uh, all of a sudden,
you know, she's, you know,
wanting to see the kids.
so I was like, "Yeah, cool."
You know what I mean?
See the kids. Whatever.
Well, all of a sudden,
she starts trying to argue
with me, whatever,
she starts trying
to get physical.
Well, she breaks my--
my big window in the front.
She throws a wrench through it--
-When was this?
-Earlier this morning.
-I'd say between 9:00 and 11:00.
-So, uh... all she was supposed
to do was just get her stuff
and leave.
You know what I mean?
That's what the officers wanted,
you know,
that's all I wanted. So--
-So we've already
been out here once today.
-Yeah, this morning!
So, they told me that
if like she comes back,
just call us again.
We're separated.
So, you know, I--
I was in the car
with another friend,
you know what I mean,
and then, I just see her,
all of a sudden popped up
in my passenger door
with the other chick.
She, you know, starts
tryin' to rush her,
so I bring her this way,
she slips out of my hand,
and she starts swinging on me.
She hits me, and then
my brother-in-law comes up,
trying to separate us,
she hits him.
You know what I mean?
All I was trying to do
was get her to leave.
-Where'd she hit you at?
-She hit me in my eye.
-In your eye?
-Yeah.
-Okay.
So it caused that swelling,
is it always swelled up
like that?
-No, she just hit me.
-All right. I see you got
the swelling.
-Sh-- she hit me,
and then my brother-in-law
came to try to--
-She was trying to
get away from him,
and she threw herself...
-Come here!
-What did you see happen?
-Okay, like I, like I told 'em,
I was like, "Tell her to leave,"
like so he was pushing her away,
telling her to leave.
And I was like, "I'm just
gonna sit here and watch y'all."
A witness or whatever.
And she was pushing
her away. She was fightin'
with them
and tryin' to like
get around 'em,
like, "No, (bleep) bitch,"
Talkin' (bleep) of course,
of course.
And so like,
in the midst of that,
she just like, threw herself,
so that's when she fell,
like she-- when-- you know,
like she told you
how she fell or whatever.
That's when she fell,
I watched her.
-Okay.
-She did hit me in the face.
-Where'd she hit you at?
-Like my nose.
-Up in your nose?
-Yeah, my nose,
and like right here.
There. Like, my nose is hurting.
-Okay.
-Yeah.
-She says that you shoved her
to the ground.
-No, it's just, you know,
like I said, I was just tryin'
to keep her
from breaking that other chick,
and, you know, I--
out of this with it,
I just had her like this,
you know...
-Okay.
-But I mean, that was it.
You know what I mean?
-Then she slipped
out of your arms?
-Yeah.
All I did, man,
is just, I wanted her gone,
you know what I mean,
'cause...
-Okay. And she got
all of her stuff and left?
-No, she just grabbed a bag
and left.
-So she still has property
in the house?
-Yeah, she still
has property in the house.
-Okay. Just hang tight
over here.
-I lashed out on him
a while back.
I'm on probation...
yeah, of course.
Been on it for 10 years.
Still got five more years to go.
-When you were over here
earlier today...
-Yeah, I was over--
-and you threw the wrench
through the window...
-Yeah.
-did they tell you
you weren't supposed
to come back
over here anymore?
-No, they-- he just said
that I just needed to leave,
that's all he said.
-Okay.
-I have a one-year-old
and a two-year-old
that I'm tryin' to do my best
to be in their lives,
but with them in my house,
I cannot do it.
You know what I mean?
That's all I want.
-What's your name, ma'am?
-Rosita.
-Just put your hands
behind your back, okay?
-Why do I gotta go to jail?
-'Cause you assaulted
your boyfriend.
-And he's-- Jaime!
-No. Do not start yelling.
-We're not doin' that.
-For real, Jaime?
They were holding me,
and I-- and I-- and I
tried to go like this, so--
-Well, it sounds like
your boyfriend was holding you
to keep you from assaulting
anybody else,
'cause you had already
tried to assault this other girl
and already hit your boyfriend.
-Mm-hmm.
-So, it sounds like
they were just trying to keep
you from assaulting people.
-All right. Let's go.
-But I, I try-- I tried,
to like, you know,
tried to communicate with him.
Babe! Please!
-Can she see her son?
-Can I-- Huh?
-Can she see her son!
-No.
-I just wanted to talk
to you.
-Sit down.
-(sighs)
-Can I talk to him, please?
-No. He doesn't want to
come over here.
-I just want to talk to him,
please.
-He said he doesn't want to
come over here.
-Babe, please!
Babe, can I talk to you,
please, love?
Babe, can I please
talk to you, love?
-Here's the deal.
You're goin' to jail tonight
for assault
because you punched
your boyfriend in the face,
and you punched the other guy
in the nose.
-Please, come talk to me!
Please, babe, please!
Babe!
-Cut that out.
-Please!
Babe! Please, love!
-Hey.
If you hit your head
like that one more time,
I'm gonna bring the paddywagon
over here, and I'm gonna
surfboard you,
and you're gonna be
completely immobilized
all the way
to the county jail.
-Do you understand that?
-I just want to talk!
-Okay, he doesn't
want to talk to you.
-Babe, come here! Please!
-Go ahead and roll.
Uh, it's pretty clear
that they're trying
to restrain her
and get her
to leave the property.
She's the primary aggressor,
so she's gonna end up
goin' to jail tonight
for domestic assault.
-We here out at District 3,
we-- we've experienced loss
personally to us
with the death
of Deputy Jesse Valdez.
Unfortunately, he was on his way
to a call
and a woman that was high
on methamphetamine
crossed over into his lane,
striking him head on,
and he ended up losing his life
for it.
So... as a tribute to Jesse,
I-- I try to get out there
and get as much drugs
off the street as possible.
This car, it failed to signal
when it made the left turn
on this street up here, and...
and it looks like
it's backin' up
and tryin' to make a weird
three-point turn,
and we're gonna stop it here.
-(siren blares)
-All right... let's get 'em.
Hey, deputy with
Harris County Sheriffs Office.
-What's goin' on, bud?
-Nothin', I was meetin' my aunt.
She's about to turn around
right here.
-Yeah? All right,
you didn't t--
use your turn signal
whenever you turned
on the street back there,
and you got a brake light out.
-Did you know that?
-I do?
-Mm-hmm.
Is there anything
illegal in this car?
-No, sir.
-Is there any weed in this car?
I was just smokin' it
right there at my house.
-All right. 'Cause I'm
smellin' it, I'm gonna have you
step out, all right?
-All right, sir.
-Hey, step out.
Come back here.
Got anything on you
that's gonna poke, stick
or hurt?
Put your hands on the car.
-I was just smokin'
before you--
-All right, put your hands
down here, bud.
You're not under arrest,
you're bein' detained,
you understand?
-I know.
-14-21. I have one detained,
I'm under control.
-Come back here, bud.
-Yes, sir.
-Whatcha doin' out here?
-Sir?
-My sister staying right here
on Waco Street, sir.
-Yeah? Stand against the car.
Am I gonna find anything
in that car?
-No, you can search it.
Tear that bitch up.
-Okay.
Your sister stays on Waco?
-Yes, right here.
-Okay. All right,
do me a favor, put your butt
on that push bumper?
All right, I'm gonna make sure
you ain't got nothin' illegal.
Do you have a driver's license?
-Yes, it's in there. I got I.D.
-Okay. You got insurance
on that car?
-Yeah.
-Okay.
My question was, do you have
a driver's license, not an I.D.
-Yeah, I got a driver's license.
-Is it good?
-Uh... I'm just paying
surcharges on it.
-Okay. Hang tight, bud.
Made the traffic stop
and I immediately smelled
burnt marijuana,
so... I got consent
to search anyways.
Did he just throw somethin'?
What'd you throw, dude?
-Sir?
-What'd you throw?
-What I throw?
-What did you throw?
-I pulled up my pants.
That's what I did,
right here, look.
-All right, look here, 'kay?
Did you throw somethin'
over there?
-This what I--
-You g-- Hey... you gonna
waste my time,
make me get a narcotics dog
out here?
-I'm not--
-'Cause if I find somethin
over there,
I'm gonna charge you
with it, man.
-I'm not wasting your time, sir.
-Okay. Is there anything
over there?
-I'm tellin' you what I did,
I did like this.
I pulled up my pants...
(indistinct)
I did like this.
When I got out of the car,
I did just like this.
-You stupid, dude.
Seriously? You just turned
a misdemeanor...
-You just--
-Listen.
-You just-- you just
searched me...
-Listen to me...
-You just searched me, sir.
-No, I patted you down
for weapons is what I did,
I didn't search you.
-I didn't have (bleep) on me.
-Listen. You just turned
a misdemeanor,
possession of marijuana,
into a felony, tampering
with evidence.
-Man, you gotta be--
can't be serious.
He said I threw some-- I pulled
up my goddamn pants like this.
-What's that?
-Look like weed.
-Yeah.
-Dude, how am I gonna throw
anything off me though?
Bro, I'm-- I'm tellin' you
the honest to God truth.
-No, you're not.
Check right there. You see
that red light right there?
That's called a dash camera.
-All right.
-They-- they don't lie.
You just turned a misdemeanor
that I probably would've
had you-- just wrote you
a ticket for...
-Man, I don't--
-into a felony.
-Sir, I'm just trying
to get to my house.
-All right.
-Over some weed?
-Yep.
-Damn, man.
(bleep)... Man, my mama
is gonna be pissed.
-All right, now that--
Hey, listen to me.
Now that that's over with...
Hey, look at me.
-Can't you let me
just call my mama
and tell it to her?
That's all, man.
-Listen to me, okay?
I haven't made no decision yet.
Okay? Listen to me,
I haven't made a decision yet,
okay?
Now I need to know from you,
is there anything else
in that car?
-Ain't nothin' in that truck,
I promise. Honest to truth...
-Okay. Are we done?
Are we done playing games?
-I'm through. I ain't--
Don't need to lie to you. Man,
I'm sorry for even lyin' to you.
-Okay.
-Officer, didn't--
I ain't...
-Okay.
-(bleep)
-So... I mean,
this ain't my first day
on the job, okay?
-I understand.
-Okay.
-I don't sell drugs, though.
-I didn't say you sold.
-I don't do none of that.
-I didn't say you sold drugs.
-You can search that,
you can tear that bitch up.
-You just smoked a little weed?
-Yeah, I was just smokin' it
right here
and that truck there--
-Hey, turn around,
I'm gonna tighten--
I'm gonna double lock
those cuffs so they don't
tighten up on you, all right?
-That truck there that
was passin' in front of me?
-Mm-hmm.
-She was just about to
bag up and come meet me.
-Mm-hmm.
-That's my little--
my little bitch. I ain't
gonna even lie to you.
-Were you gonna give her
a little bit of it?
-I was about to-- No,
I was about to smoke it myself.
She don't smoke.
-Okay.
-I about to knock
the hoe down right here.
I ain't gonna lie to you, man.
-All right.
-You ain't gonna find
nothin' in the truck, though,
my damn wife's truck.
She gonna be so mother--
-All right, hang tight for me,
I'll talk to you in a second.
-All right.
-Uh, I'm pretty sure
once I play this dash cam back
I'm gonna be able to, uh,
see him, tossing a little
plastic bag of marijuana.
This is the video.
At one point, he actually
turns around
and looks at the dash cam
right before he throws
the bag of marijuana.
You know, the amount
of marijuana he had
was a misdemeanor,
and by him throwing it
and trying to conceal it,
that's a felony.
It's a tampering with evidence
charge. He threw it just then.
All right, you're under arrest
for felony tampering
with evidence, okay?
-All right.
-Dude, what were you thinking?
At one point, you looked back
and saw the dash cam.
You saw the red light.
-I-- just wanted
to go home, man.
-Did you know that red light
was the camera?
-Yeah.
-Is that why you scooted over
a little bit?
-Yeah.
-All right, bud, we gotta go.
-(car door slams shut)
-132 and Bush,
I've got him at gunpoint.
-Dispatcher:
Okay, gunpoint, 132 and Bush.
Cover is code three.
-(overlapping
police radio chatter)
-Dispatcher:
Okay, we'll still send
a code three.
-(theme music playing)